title: Email from apache.org committer accounts bypasses moderation!
date: '2014-06-15T02:29:06+00:00'
permalink: email_from_apache_org_committer
layout: post

<p>Good news! &nbsp; We've finally laid the necessary groundwork to extend the bypassing of committer emails sent from their apache.org addresses, from commit lists to now all Apache mailing lists. &nbsp;This feature was activated earlier today and represents a significant benefit for cross-collaboration between Apache mailing lists for committers, relieving moderators of needless burden.</p> 
  <p>Also we'd like to remind you of the SSL-enabled SMTP submission service we offer committers listening on people.apache.org port 465. &nbsp;Gmail users in particular can enjoy a convenient way of sending email, to any recipient even outside apache.org, using their apache.org committer address. &nbsp;For more on that please see our website's <a href="http://www.apache.org/dev/user-email.html#via-smtp-based-mail-submission-service-recommended">documentation</a>.</p> 
  <p>To complement these features we'd also like to remind committers of the ability to request an &quot;owner file&quot; be added to their email forwarder by filing an appropriate INFRA jira ticket. &nbsp;Owner files alleviate most of the problems associated with outside organizations, who may be running strict SPF policies, attempting to reach you at your apache.org address. &nbsp;Without an owner file those messages will typically bounce back to those organizations instead of successfully reaching you at your target forwarding address. &nbsp;For those familiar with SRS, this is a poor-man's version of that specification's feature set. &nbsp;Please direct your detailed questions about owner files to the infrastructure-dev@apache.org mailing list.</p> 
  <p>NOTE: we've extended this bypass feature to include any committer email addresses listed in their personal LDAP record with Apache.</p>
