
layout: post
title: Nexus reduced performance issues resolved
date: '2014-09-11T09:19:46+00:00'
permalink: nexus_reduced_performance_issues_resolved

&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;HI All,<br /><br />So Tuesday morning we got a report in IRC that a committer was trying to get a release out <br />and could not deploy. Shortly after a Nexus issue was reported in Jira INFRA-8321. A few <br />hours later another issue INFRA-8322 related to Nexus was opened. So far, nothing unusual <br />about that.<br /><br />Yesterday, more issues reported on IRC/HipChat, and more issues opened.<br />(INFRA-8326,INFRA-8327,INFRA-8328, INFRA-8334). By then it was obvious this more than <br />a coincidence and it was already being looked into.<br /><br />Twitter notifications and emails were sent out declaring the degraded performance an outage <br />and On Call was full time looking into the issue. Others joined the call to assist and eventually <br />the outage was determined to be a change to LDAP configuration made 2 days ago by Infra.<br /><br />(See infra:r921805 for the revert of that.)<br /><br />The LDAP change was made to improve response times as it was being reported as being slow<br />to return queries. Reverting the change cured the issues Nexus was having contacting the <br />groups that committers belonged to.<br /><br />There will be another avenue looked into for improving LDAP query response times whilst not <br />affecting those services that connect via anon bind.<br /><br />Infra thanks everyone for their patience whilst this was looked into and resolved.<br /><br />Thanks go to those involved in working towards the solution:-<br /><br />Gavin McDonald (gmcdonald) <br />Tony Stevenson (pctony)<br />Chris Lambertus (cml)<br />Daniel Gruno (humbedooh)<br />Brian Fox (brianf)<br /><br />Cheers<br /><br />Gav…<br />
