title: Position Available: Infrastructure Systems Administrator
date: '2018-09-17T07:55:22+00:00'
permalink: position-available-infrastructure-systems-administrator
layout: post

<h4><strong>UPDATE</strong>: &nbsp;We have received enough applicants at this time. Thank you all for your interest.&nbsp; <br /></h4> 
  <p>The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) seeks to fill an Infrastructure Systems Administrator position. You will be responsible for working with the existing technical infrastructure team.&nbsp; The ASF manages a world-wide network of open source software which includes more than 1600 software code repositories, a worldwide distribution and mirroring system for software, change management, issue tracking, and software management for 300+ open source initiatives and over 10,000 contributors around the world.<br /><br />Applicants should have a strong background in Computer and Information Science, and should be familiar with modern DevOps environments. Applicants must demonstrate the ability to work in a remote team environment alongside others working in diverse locations around the world and in different timezones. The successful applicant will work with the existing Infrastructure team to manage the ASF's critical infrastructure and resources. Infrastructure team members are expected to work a weekly on-call rotation with the rest of the team.<br /><br />Our infrastructure team also supports our broader community by enabling the creation of self-service tooling. The successful candidate will be able to balance the needs of our critical infrastructure and the needs of our community to self-serve. These two demands can often be in conflict and thus an ability to navigate such complex environments is a distinct advantage.<br /><br />Familiarity with Puppet (or a similar configuration management tool) Linux (Ubuntu-based), Virtual Machines, Subversion/Git, Python, and full development environment stacks are a requirement. Further, the candidate should possess great documentation skills and should be well versed in not only developing and assisting in technical solutions, but in documenting them.<br /><br />Daily tasks will include handling of alarms, outages, and security concerns on a timely basis; working with our many communities on their needs and issues; managing tickets on a timely basis; rolling out and upgrading services; reducing our large technical debt; and maintaining a professional and collegial atmosphere. The team coordinates primarily through daily chat usage, weekly meetings, and email. Social skills and ability to integrate closely with the team are expected.<br /><br />Preferred qualifications include a Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science or similar background from an accredited university, though demonstrable and appropriate on-the-job experience is an acceptable substitute for formal qualifications. Familiarity with how open source communities work is a definite positive.<br /><br />English as a spoken and written language is required in order to facilitate team collaboration.<br /><br />This is a remote work position, the ASF does not require nor provide office locations. Travel once per year is required, for a team meetup and will typically be coincident with an Apache conference.<br /><br /> </p>
